SPEAKER 1: We'll talk
about dynamic imports.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: OK.
We'll recap.
We have import as an--
there's an import statement
thing with parentheses at
the end that lets you async
import a module.
Does that makes sense?
Have I got that right?
SPEAKER 2: Yes.
You have modules.
And you can now not only
just declare statically
what you import but use a--
somewhat like a function
call to put it in the
middle of your code,
and be like, if this, and, for
that loop import these things.
SPEAKER 1: Now, I noticed a
little bit in Mattias' article
about this, where he has
a note saying, By the way,
import is not a function.
SPEAKER 2: Duh, duh, duh.
SPEAKER 1: And I
thought-- right.
And I was looking at this,
and it was like, I-M-P-O-R-T,
open parenthesis, URL, or module
descriptor, close parenthesis.
That's a function, mate.
SPEAKER 2: That's the semicolon.
SPEAKER 1: You got it wrong.
This is a function.
Oh, is that a
semicolon at the end?
Yes, of course.
Or a dot then, or a--
SPEAKER 2: We are
civilized people here.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
I am a fan of the semicolon.
That's something I
still agree with.
SPEAKER 2: Man, not a function.
So what is it then?
Because it is-- yeah, like
you said, it looks like one.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah.
It's like a keyword
syntax-ey thing.
SPEAKER 2: Oh.
SPEAKER 1: I'm sure
it's one of those.
One of those is right, and one
of those is wrong, once again.
SPEAKER 2: We had
something like this before.
There's another
thing in JavaScript
that looks like a function
but it's not a function.
SPEAKER 1: Yes, Super.
SPEAKER 2: Yes, Super.
SPEAKER 1: Super.
SPEAKER 2: Super.
SPEAKER 1: That is--
and they're both not real
functions for the same reason.
And it's because--
SPEAKER 2: What is
that reason, Jake?
SPEAKER 1: Right.
Well, when you
call Import, you're
giving it a module
descriptor, which is either--
right now it has to be a
relative URL in a particular
format, like ./ or whatever.
SPEAKER 2: Sounds
doable for a function.
SPEAKER 1: What is
that relative to?
SPEAKER 2: Your face?
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Incorrect.
It's actually relative
to the script you're in.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
I mean, that makes sense.
That's how script tags
work as well, right?
SPEAKER 1: No.
No, if you use URLs
in normal scripts,
the URL is relative to the
page, to the client, which would
be like work or something.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: So you end it with
this bit of relative-ness which
is specific to the script.
SPEAKER 2: Relativity?
SPEAKER 1: Bit of
relativity would
be the correct
English word to use.
Thank you, foreign person,
for telling me how to speak.
So yeah, it is relative
to the script file itself.
SPEAKER 2: OK.
SPEAKER 1: So that's a
property that isn't--
SPEAKER 2: That
makes a lot of sense.
SPEAKER 1: Well,
SPEAKER 2: CSS behaves
the same way, right?
If you have a relative
import, like URL favi--
favicons--
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: --or something
like that, they're
relative to the CSS file
that it's being used in.
SPEAKER 1: Right.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, it's very similar to that.
But in JavaScript, we have
this concept of a realm.
But you have multiple--
SPEAKER 2: I love that word.
SPEAKER 1: And
that's sort of kind
of tied to the global
and, like, your page.
SPEAKER 2: It's almost
your JavaScript environment
that you execute in--
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: --and you
can load things in.
And you know, the files come
from all the different paths
that eventually end up in
this one thing, the realm.
SPEAKER 1: The one realm.
So this relative URL thing is
not a property of the realm.
SPEAKER 2: How could it be
if you were importing modules
from all over the place?
SPEAKER 1: Exactly.
And this is why it
doesn't make sense,
because that call to Import--
like, the question
would be is that, well,
what if you assigned that
import to another name
and passed that
to another script?
Like, you've passed
a function around.
But now it operates differently.
And the same goes with Super.
Like, when you
call Super, you're
referring to, like, that class.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
The base class.
SPEAKER 1: So they kind of
had this decision either
it needs to be part
of the language
or they do something
very weird with analyzing
stack traces to see which kind
of script it's coming from.
SPEAKER 2: Oh, that
doesn't sound good.
SPEAKER 1: And that is
why it's not a function.
So you can't assign
it to something else.
It's not type of function.
You can't do .call.
You can't assign it to
something else, uh, yeah.
SPEAKER 3: Slate 3.
Take 1.
SPEAKER 2: I think you'll
find it says scene, and slate.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: [INAUDIBLE] is on.